README.md, before:

# rake - Because Your Mono-repo Deserves Better

Welcome to the `rake` world, where complexity meets simplicity and sanity is
restored to your multi-project universe.

## What is rake?

Think of `rake` as **a single make to rule them all** – it's the beautifully
simple solution that lets you stop wrestling with build orchestration and get
back to what actually matters: your code.

At its heart, `rake` is just a clever `Makefile` that knows how to talk to
other `Makefiles`. That's it. No fancy frameworks, no mysterious magic, no PhD
required. Just good old battle-tested `make`, `git` and `bash` doing what
they've done reliably for decades.

## Getting started

Simple:

`curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MetaBarj0/rake/refs/heads/main/scripts/install | bash`

It will install `rakeup` in your user directory and you'll be able to `rake`
everything:

- `mkdir my-fancy-monorepo`
- `cd my-fancy-monorepo`
- `rakeup`

It'll create a brand new git repository.
All you need is to create some stuff in the `subs` directory.
Each sub being a part of your project (frontend, backend, git submodule,
whatever...). The must is you have a Makefile in the `sub` you create.

## Why You'll Get Raked With Joy

**Perfect for the modern mono-repo reality:** Got a repo mixing Python
microservices, React frontends, Go APIs, and maybe some Rust sprinkled in?
`rake` doesn't care. Each sub-project lives in its own directory with its own
`Makefile`, and `rake` orchestrates them like a conductor with a very chill
attitude.

**Zero mental overhead:** `rake` is designed to be invisible infrastructure. It's
the boring, reliable tool that Just Works™ so you can focus on your actually
interesting problems. No new concepts to learn, no configuration files to
maintain, no surprise behaviors.

**Compound targets made easy:** Want to test everything in your backend
project? `make backend test`. Want to build just the frontend? `make frontend
build`. Want to deploy the whole shebang? `make frontend deploy && make backend
deploy`. `rake` gives you the power to compose complex operations from simple,
predictable building blocks.

**Battle-tested foundation:** Built on `git`, `make` and `bash` – tools that
have been solving build problems since before most of us were born. If it works
on one Unix-like system, it works everywhere. No runtime dependencies, no
version conflicts, no surprises.

## The rake Philosophy

`rake` believes that build orchestration should be **simple, predictable, and
boring**. It's not trying to reinvent the wheel or be the next big thing in
DevOps. It's just trying to make your life a little easier when you're juggling
multiple projects that need to work together.

In a world of over-engineered build systems and complex CI/CD pipelines, `rake`
is the refreshingly simple alternative that lets you get back to building cool
stuff instead of fighting with your tooling.

Ready to enter the `rake` world? Your future self will thank you for choosing
simplicity.

## Rough unserious and simple roadmap

- [ ] provide abbreviation for subs for user user convenience
  - For instance, if there is only one `sub` beginning with the letter `n` such
    as `nideovim`, the user can type either:
    - `make nideovim ...`
    - `make n ...`
  - make sure there is no ambiguity in user inputs
  - make it work for beginning of sub name but also for
    - ending sub name:
      - `nideovim` and `nideovim2` can be targeted by `nm` and `n2`
        respectively
    - split names by separator such as `-` or `_`
      - `nideovim-test` and `nideovim-prod` can be targeted by `nt` and `np`
        respectively
      - and with `nd` for `nideovim-prod`
      - and with `nideovim-t` and `nideovim-p` respectively

Commit message:

feat: screaming architecture
Working on making rake even easier to use. Now any project using rake
does not have to rely on specific internals to work as expected.
Users can now just put their code directories directly at the root
directory of the git repository created by a rakeup call.
SCREAMING ARCHITECTURE!

Moved internal sub into .rake internal directory
Move test stuff within .rake
Moved funcshional submodule to .rake dir
Moved scripts in .rake
docs and install scripts, not finished, need to ensure is correctly
deployed at installation time

README.md, after:

# rake - Because Your Mono-repo Deserves Better

Welcome to the `rake` world, where complexity meets simplicity and sanity is
restored to your multi-project universe.

## What is rake?

Think of `rake` as **a single make to rule them all** – it's the beautifully
simple solution that lets you stop wrestling with build orchestration and get
back to what actually matters: your code.

At its heart, `rake` is just a clever `Makefile` that knows how to talk to
other `Makefiles`. That's it. No fancy frameworks, no mysterious magic, no PhD
required. Just good old battle-tested `make`, `git` and `bash` doing what
they've done reliably for decades.

## Getting started

Simple:

`curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MetaBarj0/rake/refs/heads/main/scripts/install | bash`

It will install `rakeup` in your user directory and you'll be able to `rake`
everything:

- `mkdir my-fancy-monorepo`
- `cd my-fancy-monorepo`
- `rakeup`

It'll create a brand new git repository.
All you need is to create some stuff (your project folders) in this directory.
Let's call those projects `subs`.
Each `sub` is a part of your project (frontend, backend, git submodule,
whatever...).

==The must is that you have to have a Makefile== in the `sub` you create.

## Why You'll Get Raked With Joy

**Perfect for the modern mono-repo reality:** Got a repo mixing Python
microservices, React frontends, Go APIs, and maybe some Rust sprinkled in?
`rake` doesn't care. Each sub-project lives in its own directory with its own
`Makefile`, and `rake` orchestrates them like a conductor with a very chill
attitude.

**Zero mental overhead:** `rake` is designed to be invisible infrastructure. It's
the boring, reliable tool that Just Works™ so you can focus on your actually
interesting problems. No new concepts to learn, no configuration files to
maintain, no surprise behaviors.

**Compound targets made easy:** Want to test everything in your backend
project? `make backend test`. Want to build just the frontend? `make frontend
build`. Want to deploy the whole shebang? `make frontend deploy && make backend
deploy`. `rake` gives you the power to compose complex operations from simple,
predictable building blocks.
Icing on the cake, due to how `rake` is built, you can perfectly rely on
autocomplete features of your shell to make `rake` even easier to use: your
`subs` are directories.

**Battle-tested foundation:** Built on `git`, `make` and `bash` – tools that
have been solving build problems since before most of us were born. If it works
on one Unix-like system, it works everywhere. No runtime dependencies, no
version conflicts, no surprises.

## The rake Philosophy

`rake` believes that build orchestration should be **simple, predictable, and
boring**. It's not trying to reinvent the wheel or be the next big thing in
DevOps. It's just trying to make your life a little easier when you're juggling
multiple projects that need to work together.

In a world of over-engineered build systems and complex CI/CD pipelines, `rake`
is the refreshingly simple alternative that lets you get back to building cool
stuff instead of fighting with your tooling.

Ready to enter the `rake` world? Your future self will thank you for choosing
simplicity.
